redpanda: simplify setting resources (#1622)
redpanda-data/helm-charts: charts/redpanda/README.md

### [resources](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/redpanda-data/redpanda?modal=values&path=resources)

Pod resource management.
This section simplifies resource allocation for the redpanda container by
providing a single location where resources are defined.

Resources may be specified by either setting `resources.cpu` and
`resources.memory` (the default) or by setting `resources.requests` and
`resources.limits`.

For details on `resources.cpu` and `resources.memory`, see their respective
documentation below.

When `resources.limits` and `resources.requests` are set, the redpanda
container's resources will be set to exactly the provided values. This allows

> users to granularly control limits and requests to best suite their use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users to granularly control limits and requests to best suit their use case.
```

For example: `resources.requests.cpu` may be set without setting
`resources.limits.cpu` to avoid the potential of CPU throttling.

Redpanda's resource related CLI flags will then be calculated as follows:

> * `--smp floor(resources.{requests,limits}.cpu)`

Reviewer: what does `{requests,limits}` mean here? We can only set one `--smp` flag and since we refer to two (possibly different) values (request, limit) it isn't clear to me how we set it.

Reviewer: I guess we need a special case for the case where the limit is < 1000m? Because we don't set --smp=0 then.

Author: > what does {requests,limits} mean here?

Ah, sorry I didn't have a great syntax for this. It's a riff on [bash's curly brace expansion](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Brace-Expansion.html) and meant to be "`resources.requests.cpu` or `resources.limits.cpu` if `resources.requests.cpu` is not specified". 

Any recommendations on a clear yet terse syntax? cc @JakeSCahill

Do you think `max(1, floor(resources.requests.cpu or resources.limits.cpu))` is clear enough?

> I guess we need a special case for the case where the limit is < 1000m? Because we don't set --smp=0 then.

Good call out! This is handled correctly in code but wasn't documented. I'll update to `max(1, floor(...))` once we have a good value for the `...`.

Reviewer: > and meant to be "resources.requests.cpu or resources.limits.cpu if resources.requests.cpu is not specified".

Ah, I see: but even if you expand it bash-style I think there is a "coalesce" or "first_non_null" type call missing. 

Overall I'm pretty dubious on the value of setting limits and requests differently for Redpanda, since `--smp` mostly means it can't use more than the given amount of CPU anyway, but I suppose we need to support this scenario in any case.

Author: > Ah, I see: but even if you expand it bash-style I think there is a "coalesce" or "first_non_null" type call missing.

Correct. Think the proposed `or` is enough? `coalesce` would be my second pick but that's because I'm very fond of SQL so I'm not sure if it's generally understandable.

> Overall I'm pretty dubious on the value of setting limits and requests differently for Redpanda, since --smp mostly means it can't use more than the given amount of CPU anyway, but I suppose we need to support this scenario in any case.

It's certainly a bit tricky but we definitely need to support any combination of requests and limits. There's been a few asks for the ability to remove CPU limits, [this blog](https://home.robusta.dev/blog/stop-using-cpu-limits) (or the image in it) gives a pretty good explanation as to why IMO. 

We opt for `requests` first as Kubernetes' scheduler behaves similarly but, as documented, if we're getting anything wrong, the user can also manually specify the flag.

Reviewer: > Correct. Think the proposed `or` is enough? `coalesce` would be my second pick but that's because I'm very fond of SQL so I'm not sure if it's generally understandable.

Both are pretty unclear to me. `or` is really leaning into the python-style "return value instead of boolean" which definitely isn't familiar to everyone.

Maybe just invent your own first_set thing and then define it before the list since you'll use it several times?

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can present it like this:

`--smp = max(1, floor(first_defined(resources.requests.cpu, resources.limits.cpu)))`

Where:

`first_defined(a, b)` means use `a` if it is defined, otherwise, use `b`.

Also, given this conversation and the new `max(1, ...)` syntax, we should update this paragraph:

> If neither a request nor a limit is provided for cpu or memory, the
corresponding flag will be omitted. As a result, setting `resources.limits`
and `resources.requests` to `{}` will result in redpanda being run without
`--smp` or `--memory`. (This is not recommended).

Reviewer 2: Oh of course. Nevermind 🙂

* `--memory resources.{requests,limits}.memory * 90%`
* `--reserve-memory 0`
* `--overprovisioned resources.{requests,limits}.cpu < 1000m`

> If neither a request nor a limit is for cpu or memory provided, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If neither a request nor a limit is provided for cpu or memory, the
```

> corresponding flag will be omitted. i.e. Setting `resources.limits` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
corresponding flag will be omitted. As a result, setting `resources.limits` and
```
